Welcome back!
Let's have a look at how to deploy
applications in OpenShift
Container Platform in this video.
But first, let's have a brief review of
what the OpenShift Container
Platform is and what it offers us?
It is a containerized application platform
and it is a self-service one at that.
Which means that users can,
if they have access to it,
login, create their own projects,
deploy their own applications,
and orchestrate them in terms of scaling,
in terms of
mutual relationships and so on.
There are many different
deployment scenarios for
OpenShift applications to be deployed.
Typically, very commonly
actually is that we,
as a developer, we simply login to
the OpenShift Container Platform,
select that we want to create
a new application and provide
a Git URL to where our source code
is and then everything else,
the building of a new container image,
the selection of the base
image for our application,
and the deployment of the application
itself once it's built,
is performed completely autonomously
by the OpenShift Container Platform.
By automating these things,
OCP allows developers
to focus on working on
the application rather
than bother themselves
with the details in the
technicalities of creating
pods and containers in
orchestration environment.
And OpenShift has been since the
very beginning, very flexible
versatile platform when it comes to
running your applications
to choice of language,
to choice of platform.
And even to this day,
it supports environments
out of the box for
the most popular programming
languages such as Java,
Ruby, Python, PHP, Node.js,
.NET and many more.
As the traffic and load to your
application increase when
users start using the
applications deployed,
more and more, OpenShift can
actually scale your application out.
So provision new instances as needed
based on the metrics that it monitors.
And of course, when the load seizes,
it can also scale down.
And it provides additional tools
like logging and monitoring
for operations teams as well.
Typical architecture of an application
deployed in OpenShift is
that of a containerized one,
which means that the runtime environment,
all the dependencies
for the application and
the compiled code itself are
built into a container image,
which is then used to start a container,
but that container is actually
encapsulated additionally within a pod,
which allows us for some
interesting deployment
use cases and scenarios
such as sidecar containers,
which perform non-functional requirements,
which means that our
application can be even more
specialized, clean, and small.
So a pod is obviously an important term.
We're going to define
it a little bit later.
Now when it comes to developers
typical interaction with the platform,
the developer will publish
their code in Git repository.
They will login to the
OpenShift web console or
use the API or the command line utilities
and they will create
definitions that build
that source code in
the OpenShift Container Platform
and deploy it as an application.
They can create as many
applications as they want.
They can scale them up to as
many instances as they need,
provided, of course, that
the platform administrators have given
them sufficient resources to do so.
There's a variety of different ways to
deploy an application in
OpenShift Container Platform,
among which one of the most
commonly used ones in development are
the Source-to-Image approach,
where you commit your
work to Git repository.
When you're ready to
deploy the application,
you login to the web console of the
OpenShift Container Platform and
pass the URL to the Git repository to
a new application creation wizard.
You could optionally even choose
a specific container image that you want
to build your application on top of
or even choose a template
which you want to use,
which provides you with additional
components such as databases.
The OpenShift Container Platform
then retrieves the code from
a Git repository and builds
a new application image,
and then subsequently deploys
the application in a pod.
Couple of commonly used resource types
that you will encounter in OpenShift
are a pod, which is basically a
collection of one or more
containers that belong together,
scale together, perform
their services together.
This is the atomic unit of
deployment in OpenShift.
Typically those pods are managed by
deployments or deployment configurations,
which are actually factories for
generations of an application.
So deployments and deployment configs have
the ability because they contain a recipe,
a description of what a
pod should look like.
They have the ability to
deploy a new generation
of the application when a
new version is available and
seamlessly transition from
old one to the new one
using what we call roll-out strategy.
We can additionally connect external
resources such as ConfigMaps
and secrets to our pod template
in the description of that pod
template in the deployment or
deployment config, ConfigMaps and secrets.
They are basically key-value
store resources which can
contain simple scaler key-value pairs,
or can even contain entire files,
which we can then attach in the
file system of a container,
or just simply use them to
initialize environment variables.
Routes are very useful resource because
they give us access to the application
from outside of OpenShift.
So in other words,
they expose the application
to external consumers.
Routes are typically
associated with a host name,
which we can use then to
access the application,
but generally, they do
allow sub units such
as URLs in a host name to point to
different applications as well. As such
Routes can be used as a terrifically
primitive applications API gateway,
if we bind, for example,
a number of applications
to the same host name,
but we use different URL prefixes.
When you open the OpenShift web console,
you will be expected to
login to your account.
For that, you will have the credentials
provided at the lab creation time.
And then once you login,
there are 2 perspectives that
you can choose from.
One is the administrative perspective,
which is meant primarily in a developer
grade account as an application
administrator perspective.
So in the administrative perspective,
we can see how many resources
our applications are using.
We can change their existing
configuration and so on.
Whereas the Developer perspective,
which is the second one,
can be used to create new applications.
But before we can do that,
we have to Create a Project
which is like an encompassing,
an enclosure for all the resources that
are related to a single application.
There are many ways to organize
application components.
Having the related microservices place
together in the same project
is just one of them.
Creating a project allows us to
select it from a drop-down box in
the top left corner and then have
a look at the topology view.
Now, before we can look at the
topology of applications, of course,
we must first add the new
application to our project.
So that is in the developer perspective.
Once we've selected a project,
we simply click on the Add button
on the left hand side in the left menu.
We can then choose from a
number of different options
either deploy quick
starts or choose images,
or browse the Developer Catalog where
we can choose from various
language environments.
So for a source-to-image
builds or choose to
deploy individual database
components or other utility images.
Once we select our choice of
language, let's say Java
in our case, we simply fill out the
parameters that are requested in the form.
Usually that will be the version of Java,
the URL to our source code,
any potential branch that
we want to deploy from,
and any potential subdirectory,
which is called context directory
within our source code.
And once we confirm,
it is up to the OpenShift
Container Platform to
build our application into a
new image and run it as a pod.
Once that happens, it appears in our
topology view where we can see its state,
where we can see it's
controlling resource
and where we can actually establish links
between applications which do not
actually do anything functionally,
but can be nice reminders about
which applications depend on others,
whenever we open the topology
view and review the diagram.
If we click on the application icon,
the details of that
application will appear.
We will have seen it's
controlling resource,
in this case the deployment.
We will see which pods it consists of.
We will see what build produce
this particular application,
we will see all other service
related information such
as routes, services and similar.
When there is a route for an
application, generally it's optional.
Not all applications have to be
exposed to the outside world,
which is, for example,
also the case with our some
of the components for our
microservices application.
Because the web frontend is
a Node.js Frontend.
It obviously needs direct access
to all the microservices.
In this case,
if you remember in the previous exercise,
we didn't have an API gateway.
Now, it would have been
completely different if
the API gateway was a
part of our ensemble.
Because the API gateway would
be contacted by the frontend
and that would have been the only
application of the lot that we needed
to expose for the web frontend
to be able to access.
Of course in addition to
the web frontend itself,
all the other microservices
could be protected by
the secure Container Platform perimeter
because it would have been the API
gateway that would contact them
internally to OpenShift and then simply
return the response back to the user.
So that's one use case where routes are
not necessary for all the applications.
Now whenever there is a route,
we can click on it and we can see
the host name associated with that
route and its current status.
If you need to change something
about OpenShift resources,
there's always an Actions menu in
the top right corner of
the resource detail view.
Generally, labels, annotations
can always be changed
and for the most part,
the resource itself can also be edited
or deleted if that is necessary.
Join us in the next video where we have
a look at how to do this in practice.